Hi, I want to tell you a little bit about this service I'm setting up called Career Path Navigator. I am a new grad and have been having a tough time finding the right job. There are lots of jobs that I am excited about, but I psych myself out. There are so many things to keep track of - so many different requirements. I thought it'd be great to come up with something that helps me simplify this process and create a visual or a map of where I am, what I can do, and where I want to be.

It's designed to help you fill in the blanks between where you want to end up and where you are. It's also designed to help you identify your strengths and your background and your goals and map that to careers you possibly hadn't considered. It's also designed to allow you to keep a running portfolio of different projects as you develop your skills. With all that information, it allows you to do some interview prep - so you can kind of do practice questions, input roles, and get specifically prepared for what people might ask you - the skills they might ask you about, what you learned, etc.

The goal is just to help develop confidence and a clear plan of action and take the busy work out of it. I personally just found it to be a divergent problem, so the goal of this is to make it more convergent. 

Okay so how do we go about this?  Okay, so let's get a little more granular. What's the actual breakdown of this? First off, we kind of want to collect your background, what you feel confident on, what you've done. There's a resume or CV upload. I know that doesn't necessarily capture everything someone is capable of. This also will accept personal writing, portfolio projects, other work. It will allow you to upload one or multiple jobs that you really would like to be competitive for and practice for potentially spend a couple of months getting into that field. 

What it allows you to do is map the skills that you have and map the skills that you want and then kind of interpolate between the two. With this, we can generate a road map from A to B: how do you know what steps do you need to take, what skills do you need to learn, what potential portfolio projects to work on to develop those skills? 

The other great thing about it is if you've uploaded multiple jobs, what it'll help you do is pick the shortest path. It'll group skills that are complementary to each other, skills that show up in multiple job applications, and have you focus on those first. So you're kind of hitting the highest yield items first and preparing yourself as a person who's going to be doing all of these jobs, and then also having your career path set in order to be able to work on your own career paths as well. That's a really great thing about it. 

There are a whole bunch of other features that are there that I'm not sure if I've mentioned. There are a lot of other features that are there that can be used for this particular job, so I'm going to go ahead and jump into some of these. 

Okay, let's see what I have here. This one's a lot easier than the previous one: where you want to end up, and then chart the path and do it as easily as possible. As you go, keep track of your portfolio, the projects you've done, match them, and that is a record of the skills you've obtained. That will also allow you to do some interview prep in the service. Let's say you finally are interviewing for this job you've been working for for six months, you've got a record of all the different skills and how you practice them, links to portfolio, links to Github links to whatever. You can practice with the coach on questions and then go in feeling really confident and having your story down and you know really a good match for the job 